# CS-300-OpenGL 8-4 Journal

Software Design can be quite tricky. The way I like to approach designing software is to first form an initial idea. Next I take developing rough drafts of the design. Lastly, I refine the design into something worth while and satifactory. One specfic design skill that has helped me during the creation of my OpenGL project was understanding what can and cannot be done with a design. You need to be realistic in your approaches while also making sure the project is innovative at the same time. To make sure this design process can be used in the future, I made sure to keep it simple but also allowed it to easily be built further upon.

Developing my 3D scene was quite an adventure. Understanding the coordinate system for OpenGL was irritating at first but seemed so simple after I got it down. Developing programs in general has roughly the same process as above. You must first think of initial designs and then refine them into a conhesive unit. To properly interate my code properly, I made sure all components were modularized. This allowed for code to be used repeatedly in different sections without any problems. Modularizing my code was also an evolved development approach I used throughout the milestones process. Since all code was split was into functions which allowed for later call back, there was always an easy way to make new 3D objects if necessary.

Computer science is my desired field of study. Since that is the case, learning pretty much anything coding related helps me further my goals professionally and educationally. OpenGL specfically has opened the window for game design and 3D modeling. I have always loved playing video games and being able to create my own in the future will feel massively rewarding. Even from an educational standpoint, there were massive bonuses to learning OpenGL. One specfic example is that I gained a plethora of C++ related knowledge while learning OpenGL.
